---
title: FAQ
description: Frequently Asked Questions
---

OK, we haven't been asked these questions. Instead, they are speculative
questions that we think others might have, but _actual_ questions will be added
here over time. This is also a convenient format to talk about what this site is
about in more detail.

## General

### Why maintain this list?

(from the editor) I was maintaining it anyway, but in a private document and in
my head. I would add new things to it as I came across them. I figured other
people might have similar criteria, and the brands listed here are also often
good answers to questions like "what sort of fill-in-the-blank will last me
forever?".

### Do you own everything on this list?

Oh my, no. Nor can we vouch for the quality of everything these brands sell.
Although over time the hope would be that someone edits or contributes to these
pages that _does_ own these products, and we have a discussion on if they should
be included here.

For now, this is more like "things we found" more than "things we personally
vouch for".

### Do you review things on this site?

(from the editor) No, although that sounds like a fun job. If we were to start
doing reviews, I think that'd be a good topic for a different website.

## The Brands we List

### What does "built to last" mean?

This is different from category to category; for something like bakeware you
might expect it to outlive you. For clothing, it might depend on the piece and
the use. "Built to last" means: not built to fail, and made as reasonably and
robustly as one could expect for its given use. That explanation is a bit of a
cop-out, but also you probably know what we mean.

### What does "reasonable labor laws" mean?

This one is tricky, but the ethos behind this site is: we think the people that
make the things we buy should have as many opportunities as we do, and be
treated as well as we are.

You can write a _lot_ about what's "reasonable". You could argue that even in
countries with relatively strong labor laws people aren't treated as fairly and
paid as well as they should be. And frankly we'd agree with you. But also we do
what we can with what we have.

It's also worth noting that people can be treated fairly by their employers,
even without laws in place to require it, and you might see various "fair trade"
and other terms applied for these, but it's extraordinarily difficult to prove
and proving it isn't really the aim here.

### What does "priced for quality, not for luxury" mean?

You can buy _very expensive_ clothing that will only last for several wears. You
can buy extraordinarily complex, adorned, extravagant items which don't perform
appreciably better. You can buy goods where you are paying for the logo more
than the product, and this tends to go hand in hand with the people who actually
made the item not being paid well for their work.

We aren't here to list things that are "cheap", by any stretch. Some of them
could be quite expensive even. But the goal is for these items to be _worth_ the
cost, because they work well and last for you, and the people that made them
were taken care of.

### What does "fairly made" mean?

The answer to this is the previous two questions, combined. We hope that our
money goes to benefit everyone that worked on making it a reality.

### How do you know these brands treat people fairly?

We don't. And you are absolutely encouraged to do your own research to see how
you feel about the products you buy on a case by case basis. If you do that
research and find out things you think might help others make decisions,
consider [contributing].

[contributing]: {{< ref "/contribute" >}}

### What isn't on this list?

Lots of things. We'll provide some examples but take note that this isn't
exhaustive, and it's also not a line-in-the-sand; if you have brands that you
think should be listed we can have a discussion when they are submitted.
Generally though, I think this provides a reasonable set of guidelines:

* _Bespoke/non-commodity items:_ There are many things you could have made custom
  by some local builder, but they aren't really commercially available products.
  We're looking for things that are available off-the-shelf to most consumers.
* _Overly broad brands:_ KitchenAid springs to mind; their stand mixers might be
  made in the USA still (we think?) but they also make thousands of other items
  which are made by who-knows and of varying quality. We wouldn't list them on
  this site.
* _Non-contemporary items:_ Many things you could buy used, vintage, etc. would
  fit our criteria easily. However this site is focused on items you can buy
  today. Buying used is awesome and you should do it, but it's just not the
  focus of this site.
* _Niche products:_ This is hand-wavey but a representative category might be
  "wood burning stoves". Many of those are made right in the country where you
  live, but I don't imagine it brings much value to list those here. Case by
  case basis maybe.
* _High tech:_ Things like computers and phones almost certainly don't qualify;
  they're unlikely to last, change all the time, and the manufacturers are
  extremely complex to identify outside of final assembly. There could be things
  in this category that would fit, but we haven't thought of any just yet.
* _Vehicles_: Again, too hard to prove they'll last for contemporary vehicles,
  and they change far too often; a site full of old Volvo Wagons and Toyota
  Hilux trucks sounds sweet but isn't really the aim.

### Is this site USA-centric?

It's certainly North America-centric, although we'd like to figure out how to
make it workable for people all over the world; but we also feel like the list
of brands/products will be different depending on what part of the world you are
in. Maybe some day we'll figure out how to make it sensibly limited to a locale
where you say "I'm in _country X_" and we try to tailor it to you. Or maybe
that's better on a different site entirely.

### These items are expensive, I can get the same quality for less elsewhere!

This site is about a specific set of criteria we want to evaluate when choosing
goods, and it doesn't necessarily mean they are better, nor does it mean our
criteria are better. They're just our criteria, and this site exists because
finding brands that fit them wasn't easily discoverable. We don't mean to make
any particular judgement about choices _anyone_ wants to make.

## Technical/Meta

### I'd like to make a similar site, but with a different focus.

Awesome. We've documented exactly how this site is built in our [Contribution
Guide], and you can fork what we've done to create your own. It's technical, but
in the end it can be done for just the cost of a domain name, or less (and your
time of course, which isn't cheap!). We'd love to see similar guides pop up.

[contribution guide]: {{< param "contributing.url" >}}
